Getting started
===============

Here are some guidelines to use the ``pydita-ast`` package.
One can keep in mind that each step can be modified to fit
with its own project.


Pre-defined format
------------------

The conversion is based on a pre-defined XML directory format and 
it is recommended to comply with it. 
The expected format is as follows:

.. include:: ./images/diags/diag_directory.rst


Template directory
------------------

The ``_package`` directory is the template that will be followed by the
autogenerated package.


Converting an XML-directory
---------------------------

Once the ``XML_directory`` is correctly organized, the converter can be run.

.. code:: bash

    python xml2rst.py -p XML_directory_path


If some functions need to be customized, the path containing the python
files can be specified.

.. code:: bash

    python xml2rst.py -p XML_directory_path -f customized_function_directory_path

For further details, refer to the `Source code generation <ref_source_code>`_ documentation.

After that, the Sphinx documentation is ready to be generated. By default, it is
contained in the ``package`` directory. This directory is explained in the following section
`Autogenerated package`_.

The following code is to render the documentation as an HTML one from Windows:

.. code:: bash

    cd package
    pip install -e .[doc] # The use of a virtual environment is recommended.
    .\doc\make.bat html 


Autogenerated package
---------------------

The organization of the autogenerated ``package`` directory is presented bellow.  

.. include:: ./images/diags/diag_package.rst







.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:

    source_code
    objects